docs/cosign.md, before:

# Container Image Sign and Verify with cosign tool

| :zap: Requirement | nerdctl >= 0.15 |
|-------------------|-----------------|

[cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign) is tool that allows you to sign and verify container images with the
public/private key pairs or without them by providing
a [Keyless support](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/blob/main/KEYLESS.md).

Keyless uses ephemeral keys and certificates, which are signed automatically by
the [fulcio](https://github.com/sigstore/fulcio) root CA. Signatures are stored in
the [rekor](https://github.com/sigstore/rekor) transparency log, which automatically provides an attestation as to when
the signature was created.

Cosign would use prompt to confirm the statement below during `sign`. Nerdctl added `--yes` to Cosign command, which says yes and prevents this prompt.
Using Nerdctl push with signing by Cosign means that users agree the statement.


```
Note that there may be personally identifiable information associated with this signed artifact.
This may include the email address associated with the account with which you authenticate.
This information will be used for signing this artifact and will be stored in public transparency logs and cannot be removed later.

By typing 'y', you attest that you grant (or have permission to grant) and agree to have this information stored permanently in transparency logs.
```

You can enable container signing and verifying features with `push` and `pull` commands of `nerdctl` by using `cosign`
under the hood with make use of flags `--sign` while pushing the container image, and `--verify` while pulling the
container image.

> * Ensure cosign executable in your `$PATH`.
> * You can install cosign by following this page: https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation

Prepare your environment:

```shell
# Create a sample Dockerfile
$ cat <<EOF | tee Dockerfile.dummy
FROM alpine:latest
CMD [ "echo", "Hello World" ]
EOF
```

> Please do not forget, we won't be validating the base images, which is `alpine:latest` in this case, of the container image that was built on,
> we'll only verify the container image itself once we sign it.

```shell

# Build the image
$ nerdctl build -t devopps/hello-world -f Dockerfile.dummy .

# Generate a key-pair: cosign.key and cosign.pub
$ cosign generate-key-pair

# Export your COSIGN_PASSWORD to prevent CLI prompting
$ export COSIGN_PASSWORD=$COSIGN_PASSWORD
```

Sign the container image while pushing:

```
# Sign the image with Keyless mode
$ nerdctl push --sign=cosign devopps/hello-world

# Sign the image and store the signature in the registry
$ nerdctl push --sign=cosign --cosign-key cosign.key devopps/hello-world
```

Verify the container image while pulling:

> REMINDER: Image won't be pulled if there are no matching signatures in case you passed `--verify` flag.

```shell
# Verify the image with Keyless mode
$ nerdctl pull --verify=cosign devopps/hello-world
INFO[0004] cosign:
INFO[0004] cosign: [{"critical":{"identity":...}]
docker.io/devopps/nginx-new:latest:                                               resolved       |++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++|
manifest-sha256:0910d404e58dd320c3c0c7ea31bf5fbfe7544b26905c5eccaf87c3af7bcf9b88: done           |++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++|
config-sha256:1de1c4fb5122ac8650e349e018fba189c51300cf8800d619e92e595d6ddda40e:   done           |++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++|
elapsed: 1.4 s                                                                    total:  1.3 Ki (928.0 B/s)

# You can not verify the image if it is not signed
$ nerdctl pull --verify=cosign --cosign-key cosign.pub devopps/hello-world-bad
INFO[0003] cosign: Error: no matching signatures:
INFO[0003] cosign: failed to verify signature
INFO[0003] cosign: main.go:46: error during command execution: no matching signatures:
INFO[0003] cosign: failed to verify signature
```

## Cosign in Compose

> Cosign support in Compose is also experimental and implemented based on Compose's [extension](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/spec.md#extension) capibility.

cosign is supported in `nerdctl compose up|run|push|pull`. You can use cosign in Compose by adding the following fields in your compose yaml. These fields are _per service_, and you can enable only `verify` or only `sign` (or both).

```yaml
# only put cosign related fields under the service you want to sign/verify.
services:
  svc0:
    build: .
    image: ${REGISTRY}/svc0_image # replace with your registry
    # `x-nerdctl-verify` and `x-nerdctl-cosign-public-key` are for verify
    # required for `nerdctl compose up|run|pull`
    x-nerdctl-verify: cosign
    x-nerdctl-cosign-public-key: /path/to/cosign.pub
    # `x-nerdctl-sign` and `x-nerdctl-cosign-private-key` are for sign
    # required for `nerdctl compose push`
    x-nerdctl-sign: cosign
    x-nerdctl-cosign-private-key: /path/to/cosign.key
    ports:
    - 8080:80
  svc1:
    build: .
    image: ${REGISTRY}/svc1_image # replace with your registry
    ports:
    - 8081:80
```

Following the cosign tutorial above, first set up environment and prepare cosign key pair:

```shell
# Generate a key-pair: cosign.key and cosign.pub
$ cosign generate-key-pair

# Export your COSIGN_PASSWORD to prevent CLI prompting
$ export COSIGN_PASSWORD=$COSIGN_PASSWORD
```

We'll use the following `Dockerfile` and `docker-compose.yaml`:

```shell
$ cat Dockerfile
FROM nginx:1.19-alpine
RUN uname -m > /usr/share/nginx/html/index.html

$ cat docker-compose.yml
services:
  svc0:
    build: .
    image: ${REGISTRY}/svc1_image # replace with your registry
    x-nerdctl-verify: cosign
    x-nerdctl-cosign-public-key: ./cosign.pub
    x-nerdctl-sign: cosign
    x-nerdctl-cosign-private-key: ./cosign.key
    ports:
    - 8080:80
  svc1:
    build: .
    image: ${REGISTRY}/svc1_image # replace with your registry
    ports:
    - 8081:80
```

> The `env "COSIGN_PASSWORD="$COSIGN_PASSWORD""` part in the below commands is a walkaround to use rootful nerdctl and make the env variable visible to root (in sudo). You don't need this part if (1) you're using rootless, or (2) your `COSIGN_PASSWORD` is visible in root.

First let's `build` and `push` the two services:

```shell
$ sudo nerdctl compose build
INFO[0000] Building image xxxxx/svc0_image
...
INFO[0000] Building image xxxxx/svc1_image
[+] Building 0.2s (6/6) FINISHED

$ sudo env "COSIGN_PASSWORD="$COSIGN_PASSWORD"" nerdctl compose --experimental=true push
INFO[0000] Pushing image xxxxx/svc1_image
...
INFO[0000] Pushing image xxxxx/svc0_image
INFO[0000] pushing as a reduced-platform image (application/vnd.docker.distribution.manifest.v2+json, sha256:4329abc3143b1545835de17e1302c8313a9417798b836022f4c8c8dc8b10a3e9)
INFO[0000] cosign: WARNING: Image reference xxxxx/svc0_image uses a tag, not a digest, to identify the image to sign.
INFO[0000] cosign:
INFO[0000] cosign: This can lead you to sign a different image than the intended one. Please use a
INFO[0000] cosign: digest (example.com/ubuntu@sha256:abc123...) rather than tag
INFO[0000] cosign: (example.com/ubuntu:latest) for the input to cosign. The ability to refer to
INFO[0000] cosign: images by tag will be removed in a future release.
INFO[0000] cosign: Pushing signature to: xxxxx/svc0_image
```

Then we can `pull` and `up` services (`run` is similar to up):

```shell
# ensure built images are removed and pull is performed.
$ sudo nerdctl compose down
$ sudo env "COSIGN_PASSWORD="$COSIGN_PASSWORD"" nerdctl compose --experimental=true pull
$ sudo env "COSIGN_PASSWORD="$COSIGN_PASSWORD"" nerdctl compose --experimental=true up
$ sudo env "COSIGN_PASSWORD="$COSIGN_PASSWORD"" nerdctl compose --experimental=true run svc0 -- echo "hello"
# clean up compose resources.
$ sudo nerdctl compose down
```

Check your logs to confirm that svc0 is verified by cosign (have cosign logs) and svc1 is not. You can also change the public key in `docker-compose.yaml` to a random value to see verify failure will stop the container being `pull|up|run`.

Commit message:

Add Cosign keyless mode required args for nerdctl pull and run
Signed-off-by: Ziwen Ning <ningziwe@amazon.com>

docs/cosign.md, after:

# Container Image Sign and Verify with cosign tool

| :zap: Requirement | nerdctl >= 0.15 |
|-------------------|-----------------|

[cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign) is tool that allows you to sign and verify container images with the
public/private key pairs or without them by providing
a [Keyless support](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/blob/main/KEYLESS.md).

Keyless uses ephemeral keys and certificates, which are signed automatically by
the [fulcio](https://github.com/sigstore/fulcio) root CA. Signatures are stored in
the [rekor](https://github.com/sigstore/rekor) transparency log, which automatically provides an attestation as to when
the signature was created.

Cosign would use prompt to confirm the statement below during `sign`. Nerdctl added `--yes` to Cosign command, which says yes and prevents this prompt.
Using Nerdctl push with signing by Cosign means that users agree the statement.


```
Note that there may be personally identifiable information associated with this signed artifact.
This may include the email address associated with the account with which you authenticate.
This information will be used for signing this artifact and will be stored in public transparency logs and cannot be removed later.

By typing 'y', you attest that you grant (or have permission to grant) and agree to have this information stored permanently in transparency logs.
```

You can enable container signing and verifying features with `push` and `pull` commands of `nerdctl` by using `cosign`
under the hood with make use of flags `--sign` while pushing the container image, and `--verify` while pulling the
container image.

> * Ensure cosign executable in your `$PATH`.
> * You can install cosign by following this page: https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation

Prepare your environment:

```shell
# Create a sample Dockerfile
$ cat <<EOF | tee Dockerfile.dummy
FROM alpine:latest
CMD [ "echo", "Hello World" ]
EOF
```

> Please do not forget, we won't be validating the base images, which is `alpine:latest` in this case, of the container image that was built on,
> we'll only verify the container image itself once we sign it.

```shell

# Build the image
$ nerdctl build -t devopps/hello-world -f Dockerfile.dummy .

# Generate a key-pair: cosign.key and cosign.pub
$ cosign generate-key-pair

# Export your COSIGN_PASSWORD to prevent CLI prompting
$ export COSIGN_PASSWORD=$COSIGN_PASSWORD
```

Sign the container image while pushing:

```
# Sign the image with Keyless mode
$ nerdctl push --sign=cosign devopps/hello-world

# Sign the image and store the signature in the registry
$ nerdctl push --sign=cosign --cosign-key cosign.key devopps/hello-world
```

Verify the container image while pulling:

> REMINDER: Image won't be pulled if there are no matching signatures in case you passed `--verify` flag.

> REMINDER: For keyless flows to work, you need to set either --cosign-certificate-identity or --cosign-certificate-identity-regexp, and either --cosign-certificate-oidc-issuer or --cosign-certificate-oidc-issuer-regexp. The OIDC issuer expected in a valid Fulcio certificate for --verify=cosign, e.g. https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com or https://oauth2.sigstore.dev/auth.

```shell
# Verify the image with Keyless mode
$ nerdctl pull --verify=cosign --certificate-identity=name@example.com --certificate-oidc-issuer=https://accounts.example.com devopps/hello-world
INFO[0004] cosign:
INFO[0004] cosign: [{"critical":{"identity":...}]
docker.io/devopps/nginx-new:latest:                                               resolved       |++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++|
manifest-sha256:0910d404e58dd320c3c0c7ea31bf5fbfe7544b26905c5eccaf87c3af7bcf9b88: done           |++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++|
config-sha256:1de1c4fb5122ac8650e349e018fba189c51300cf8800d619e92e595d6ddda40e:   done           |++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++|
elapsed: 1.4 s                                                                    total:  1.3 Ki (928.0 B/s)

# You can not verify the image if it is not signed
$ nerdctl pull --verify=cosign --cosign-key cosign.pub devopps/hello-world-bad
INFO[0003] cosign: Error: no matching signatures:
INFO[0003] cosign: failed to verify signature
INFO[0003] cosign: main.go:46: error during command execution: no matching signatures:
INFO[0003] cosign: failed to verify signature
```

## Cosign in Compose

> Cosign support in Compose is also experimental and implemented based on Compose's [extension](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/spec.md#extension) capibility.

cosign is supported in `nerdctl compose up|run|push|pull`. You can use cosign in Compose by adding the following fields in your compose yaml. These fields are _per service_, and you can enable only `verify` or only `sign` (or both).

```yaml
# only put cosign related fields under the service you want to sign/verify.
services:
  svc0:
    build: .
    image: ${REGISTRY}/svc0_image # replace with your registry
    # `x-nerdctl-verify` and `x-nerdctl-cosign-public-key` are for verify
    # required for `nerdctl compose up|run|pull`
    x-nerdctl-verify: cosign
    x-nerdctl-cosign-public-key: /path/to/cosign.pub
    # `x-nerdctl-sign` and `x-nerdctl-cosign-private-key` are for sign
    # required for `nerdctl compose push`
    x-nerdctl-sign: cosign
    x-nerdctl-cosign-private-key: /path/to/cosign.key
    ports:
    - 8080:80
  svc1:
    build: .
    image: ${REGISTRY}/svc1_image # replace with your registry
    ports:
    - 8081:80
```

Following the cosign tutorial above, first set up environment and prepare cosign key pair:

```shell
# Generate a key-pair: cosign.key and cosign.pub
$ cosign generate-key-pair

# Export your COSIGN_PASSWORD to prevent CLI prompting
$ export COSIGN_PASSWORD=$COSIGN_PASSWORD
```

We'll use the following `Dockerfile` and `docker-compose.yaml`:

```shell
$ cat Dockerfile
FROM nginx:1.19-alpine
RUN uname -m > /usr/share/nginx/html/index.html

$ cat docker-compose.yml
services:
  svc0:
    build: .
    image: ${REGISTRY}/svc1_image # replace with your registry
    x-nerdctl-verify: cosign
    x-nerdctl-cosign-public-key: ./cosign.pub
    x-nerdctl-sign: cosign
    x-nerdctl-cosign-private-key: ./cosign.key
    ports:
    - 8080:80
  svc1:
    build: .
    image: ${REGISTRY}/svc1_image # replace with your registry
    ports:
    - 8081:80
```

> The `env "COSIGN_PASSWORD="$COSIGN_PASSWORD""` part in the below commands is a walkaround to use rootful nerdctl and make the env variable visible to root (in sudo). You don't need this part if (1) you're using rootless, or (2) your `COSIGN_PASSWORD` is visible in root.

First let's `build` and `push` the two services:

```shell
$ sudo nerdctl compose build
INFO[0000] Building image xxxxx/svc0_image
...
INFO[0000] Building image xxxxx/svc1_image
[+] Building 0.2s (6/6) FINISHED

$ sudo env "COSIGN_PASSWORD="$COSIGN_PASSWORD"" nerdctl compose --experimental=true push
INFO[0000] Pushing image xxxxx/svc1_image
...
INFO[0000] Pushing image xxxxx/svc0_image
INFO[0000] pushing as a reduced-platform image (application/vnd.docker.distribution.manifest.v2+json, sha256:4329abc3143b1545835de17e1302c8313a9417798b836022f4c8c8dc8b10a3e9)
INFO[0000] cosign: WARNING: Image reference xxxxx/svc0_image uses a tag, not a digest, to identify the image to sign.
INFO[0000] cosign:
INFO[0000] cosign: This can lead you to sign a different image than the intended one. Please use a
INFO[0000] cosign: digest (example.com/ubuntu@sha256:abc123...) rather than tag
INFO[0000] cosign: (example.com/ubuntu:latest) for the input to cosign. The ability to refer to
INFO[0000] cosign: images by tag will be removed in a future release.
INFO[0000] cosign: Pushing signature to: xxxxx/svc0_image
```

Then we can `pull` and `up` services (`run` is similar to up):

```shell
# ensure built images are removed and pull is performed.
$ sudo nerdctl compose down
$ sudo env "COSIGN_PASSWORD="$COSIGN_PASSWORD"" nerdctl compose --experimental=true pull
$ sudo env "COSIGN_PASSWORD="$COSIGN_PASSWORD"" nerdctl compose --experimental=true up
$ sudo env "COSIGN_PASSWORD="$COSIGN_PASSWORD"" nerdctl compose --experimental=true run svc0 -- echo "hello"
# clean up compose resources.
$ sudo nerdctl compose down
```

Check your logs to confirm that svc0 is verified by cosign (have cosign logs) and svc1 is not. You can also change the public key in `docker-compose.yaml` to a random value to see verify failure will stop the container being `pull|up|run`.
