docs/nydus.md, before:

# Lazy-pulling using Nydus Snapshotter

| :zap: Requirement | nerdctl >= 0.22 |
| ----------------- | --------------- |

Nydus snapshotter is a remote snapshotter plugin of containerd for [Nydus](https://github.com/dragonflyoss/image-service) image service which implements a chunk-based content-addressable filesystem that improves the current OCI image specification, in terms of container launching speed, image space, and network bandwidth efficiency, as well as data integrity with several runtime backends: FUSE, virtiofs and in-kernel EROFS (Linux kernel 5.19+).

## Enable lazy-pulling for `nerdctl run`

- Install containerd remote snapshotter plugin (`containerd-nydus-grpc`) from https://github.com/containerd/nydus-snapshotter

- Add the following to `/etc/containerd/config.toml`:
```toml
[proxy_plugins]
  [proxy_plugins.nydus]
    type = "snapshot"
    address = "/run/containerd-nydus-grpc/containerd-nydus-grpc.sock"
```

- Launch `containerd` and `containerd-nydus-grpc`

- Run `nerdctl` with `--snapshotter=nydus`
```console
# nerdctl --snapshotter=nydus run -it --rm ghcr.io/dragonflyoss/image-service/ubuntu:nydus-nightly-v5
```

For the list of pre-converted Nydus images, see https://github.com/orgs/dragonflyoss/packages?page=1&repo_name=image-service

For more details about how to build Nydus image, please refer to [nydusify](https://github.com/dragonflyoss/image-service/blob/master/docs/nydusify.md) conversion tool and [acceld](https://github.com/goharbor/acceleration-service).

Commit message:

Add support for converting nydus images to `nerdctl image convert`
Signed-off-by: Nan Li <loheagn@icloud.com>

docs/nydus.md, after:

# Lazy-pulling using Nydus Snapshotter

| :zap: Requirement | nerdctl >= 0.22 |
| ----------------- | --------------- |

Nydus snapshotter is a remote snapshotter plugin of containerd for [Nydus](https://github.com/dragonflyoss/image-service) image service which implements a chunk-based content-addressable filesystem that improves the current OCI image specification, in terms of container launching speed, image space, and network bandwidth efficiency, as well as data integrity with several runtime backends: FUSE, virtiofs and in-kernel EROFS (Linux kernel 5.19+).

## Enable lazy-pulling for `nerdctl run`

- Install containerd remote snapshotter plugin (`containerd-nydus-grpc`) from https://github.com/containerd/nydus-snapshotter

- Add the following to `/etc/containerd/config.toml`:
```toml
[proxy_plugins]
  [proxy_plugins.nydus]
    type = "snapshot"
    address = "/run/containerd-nydus-grpc/containerd-nydus-grpc.sock"
```

- Launch `containerd` and `containerd-nydus-grpc`

- Run `nerdctl` with `--snapshotter=nydus`
```console
# nerdctl --snapshotter=nydus run -it --rm ghcr.io/dragonflyoss/image-service/ubuntu:nydus-nightly-v5
```

For the list of pre-converted Nydus images, see https://github.com/orgs/dragonflyoss/packages?page=1&repo_name=image-service

## Build Nydus image using `nerdctl image convert`

Nerdctl supports to convert an OCI image or docker format v2 image to Nydus image by using the `nerdctl image convert` command.

Before the conversion, you should have the `nydus-image` binary installed, which is contained in the ["nydus static package"](https://github.com/dragonflyoss/image-service/releases). You can run the command like `nerdctl image convert --nydus --oci --nydus-image <the_path_of_nydus_image> <source_image> <target_image>` to convert the `<source_image>` to a Nydus image whose tag is `<target_image>`.

By now, the converted Nydus image cannot be run directly. It shoud be unpacked to nydus snapshotter before `nerdctl run`, which is a part of the processing flow of `nerdctl image pull`. So you need to push the converted image to a registry after the conversion and use `nerdctl --snapshotter nydus image pull` to unpack it to the nydus snapshotter before running the image.

Optionally, you can use the nydusify conversion tool to check if the format of the converted Nydus image is valid. For more details about the Nydus image validation and how to build Nydus image, please refer to [nydusify](https://github.com/dragonflyoss/image-service/blob/master/docs/nydusify.md) and [acceld](https://github.com/goharbor/acceleration-service).
