docs/rootless.md, before:

# Rootless mode

See https://rootlesscontaine.rs/getting-started/common/ for the prerequisites.

## Daemon (containerd)

Use [`containerd-rootless-setuptool.sh`](../extras/rootless) to set up rootless containerd.

```console
$ containerd-rootless-setuptool.sh install
[INFO] Checking RootlessKit functionality
[INFO] Checking cgroup v2
[INFO] Checking overlayfs
[INFO] Creating /home/testuser/.config/systemd/user/containerd.service
...
[INFO] Installed containerd.service successfully.
[INFO] To control containerd.service, run: `systemctl --user (start|stop|restart) containerd.service`
[INFO] To run containerd.service on system startup, run: `sudo loginctl enable-linger testuser`

[INFO] Use `nerdctl` to connect to the rootless containerd.
[INFO] You do NOT need to specify $CONTAINERD_ADDRESS explicitly.
```

The usage of `containerd-rootless-setuptool.sh` is almost same as [`dockerd-rootless-setuptool.sh`](https://rootlesscontaine.rs/getting-started/docker/) .

Resource limitation flags such as `nerdctl run --memory` require systemd and cgroup v2: https://rootlesscontaine.rs/getting-started/common/cgroup2/

## Client (nerdctl)

Just execute `nerdctl`. No need to specify the socket address manually.

```console
$ nerdctl run -it --rm alpine
```

Depending on your kernel version, you may need to enable FUSE-OverlayFS or set `export CONTAINERD_SNAPSHOTTER=native`.
(See below.)

## Add-ons
### BuildKit
To enable BuildKit, run the following command:

```console
$ containerd-rootless-setuptool.sh install-buildkit
```

## Snapshotters

### OverlayFS

The default `overlayfs` snapshotter only works on the following hosts:
- Any distro, with kernel >= 5.13
- Non-SELinux distro, with kernel >= 5.11
- Ubuntu since 2015

For other hosts, [`fuse-overlayfs` snapshotter](https://github.com/containerd/fuse-overlayfs-snapshotter) needs to be used instead.

### FUSE-OverlayFS

To enable `fuse-overlayfs` snapshotter, run the following command:
```console
$ containerd-rootless-setuptool.sh install-fuse-overlayfs
```

Then, add the following config to `~/.config/containerd/config.toml`, and run `systemctl --user restart containerd.service`:
```toml
[proxy_plugins]
  [proxy_plugins."fuse-overlayfs"]
      type = "snapshot"
# NOTE: replace "1000" with your actual UID
      address = "/run/user/1000/containerd-fuse-overlayfs.sock"
```

The snapshotter can be specified as `$CONTAINERD_SNAPSHOTTER`.
```console
$ export CONTAINERD_SNAPSHOTTER=fuse-overlayfs
$ nerdctl run -it --rm alpine
```

If `fuse-overlayfs` does not work, try `export CONTAINERD_SNAPSHOTTER=native`.

### Stargz Snapshotter
[Stargz Snapshotter](./stargz.md) enables lazy-pulling of images.

To enable Stargz snapshotter, run the following command:
```console
$ containerd-rootless-setuptool.sh install-stargz
```

Then, add the following config to `~/.config/containerd/config.toml` and run `systemctl --user restart containerd.service`:
```toml
[proxy_plugins]
  [proxy_plugins."stargz"]
      type = "snapshot"
# NOTE: replace "1000" with your actual UID
      address = "/run/user/1000/containerd-stargz-grpc/containerd-stargz-grpc.sock"
```

The snapshotter can be specified as `$CONTAINERD_SNAPSHOTTER`.
```console
$ export CONTAINERD_SNAPSHOTTER=stargz
$ nerdctl run -it --rm ghcr.io/stargz-containers/alpine:3.10.2-esgz
```

See https://github.com/containerd/stargz-snapshotter/blob/master/docs/pre-converted-images.md for the image list.

## bypass4netns
[bypass4netns(https://github.com/rootless-containers/bypass4netns)](https://github.com/rootless-containers/bypass4netns) is an accelerator for rootless networking.

This improves **outgoing or incoming (with --publish option) networking performance.**

The performance benchmark with iperf3 on Ubuntu 21.10 on Hyper-V VM is shown below.
| iperf3 benchmark  | without bypass4netns | with bypass4netns |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ----------------- |
| container -> host | 0.398 Gbps           | **42.2 Gbps**         |
| host -> container | 20.6 Gbps             | **47.4 Gbps**         |

This benchmark can be reproduced with [https://github.com/rootless-containers/bypass4netns/blob/f009d96139e9e38ce69a2ea8a9a746349bad273c/Vagrantfile](https://github.com/rootless-containers/bypass4netns/blob/f009d96139e9e38ce69a2ea8a9a746349bad273c/Vagrantfile)

Acceleration with bypass4netns is available with `--label nerdctl/bypass4netns=true`
Example
```console
$ nerdctl run -it --rm -p 8080:80 --label nerdctl/bypass4netns=true alpine
```

More detail is available at [https://github.com/rootless-containers/bypass4netns/blob/master/README.md](https://github.com/rootless-containers/bypass4netns/blob/master/README.md)

### :warning: Caveats :warning:
Subnets(`127.0.0.0/8, 10.0.0.0/8`) not handled by bypass4netns is hard-coded.
Container networks which are not contained in the subnets can be broken or can cause problems.

### TODO
- Remove hard-coded subnets in pkg/bypass4netnsutil/bypass.go

## Troubleshooting

### Hint to Fedora users
- If SELinux is enabled on your host and your kernel is older than 5.13, you need to use [`fuse-overlayfs` instead of `overlayfs`](#fuse-overlayfs).

Commit message:

nerdctl-full: add bypass4netns
Also update docs

Signed-off-by: Akihiro Suda <akihiro.suda.cz@hco.ntt.co.jp>

docs/rootless.md, after:

# Rootless mode

See https://rootlesscontaine.rs/getting-started/common/ for the prerequisites.

## Daemon (containerd)

Use [`containerd-rootless-setuptool.sh`](../extras/rootless) to set up rootless containerd.

```console
$ containerd-rootless-setuptool.sh install
[INFO] Checking RootlessKit functionality
[INFO] Checking cgroup v2
[INFO] Checking overlayfs
[INFO] Creating /home/testuser/.config/systemd/user/containerd.service
...
[INFO] Installed containerd.service successfully.
[INFO] To control containerd.service, run: `systemctl --user (start|stop|restart) containerd.service`
[INFO] To run containerd.service on system startup, run: `sudo loginctl enable-linger testuser`

[INFO] Use `nerdctl` to connect to the rootless containerd.
[INFO] You do NOT need to specify $CONTAINERD_ADDRESS explicitly.
```

The usage of `containerd-rootless-setuptool.sh` is almost same as [`dockerd-rootless-setuptool.sh`](https://rootlesscontaine.rs/getting-started/docker/) .

Resource limitation flags such as `nerdctl run --memory` require systemd and cgroup v2: https://rootlesscontaine.rs/getting-started/common/cgroup2/

## Client (nerdctl)

Just execute `nerdctl`. No need to specify the socket address manually.

```console
$ nerdctl run -it --rm alpine
```

Depending on your kernel version, you may need to enable FUSE-OverlayFS or set `export CONTAINERD_SNAPSHOTTER=native`.
(See below.)

## Add-ons
### BuildKit
To enable BuildKit, run the following command:

```console
$ containerd-rootless-setuptool.sh install-buildkit
```

## Snapshotters

### OverlayFS

The default `overlayfs` snapshotter only works on the following hosts:
- Any distro, with kernel >= 5.13
- Non-SELinux distro, with kernel >= 5.11
- Ubuntu since 2015

For other hosts, [`fuse-overlayfs` snapshotter](https://github.com/containerd/fuse-overlayfs-snapshotter) needs to be used instead.

### FUSE-OverlayFS

To enable `fuse-overlayfs` snapshotter, run the following command:
```console
$ containerd-rootless-setuptool.sh install-fuse-overlayfs
```

Then, add the following config to `~/.config/containerd/config.toml`, and run `systemctl --user restart containerd.service`:
```toml
[proxy_plugins]
  [proxy_plugins."fuse-overlayfs"]
      type = "snapshot"
# NOTE: replace "1000" with your actual UID
      address = "/run/user/1000/containerd-fuse-overlayfs.sock"
```

The snapshotter can be specified as `$CONTAINERD_SNAPSHOTTER`.
```console
$ export CONTAINERD_SNAPSHOTTER=fuse-overlayfs
$ nerdctl run -it --rm alpine
```

If `fuse-overlayfs` does not work, try `export CONTAINERD_SNAPSHOTTER=native`.

### Stargz Snapshotter
[Stargz Snapshotter](./stargz.md) enables lazy-pulling of images.

To enable Stargz snapshotter, run the following command:
```console
$ containerd-rootless-setuptool.sh install-stargz
```

Then, add the following config to `~/.config/containerd/config.toml` and run `systemctl --user restart containerd.service`:
```toml
[proxy_plugins]
  [proxy_plugins."stargz"]
      type = "snapshot"
# NOTE: replace "1000" with your actual UID
      address = "/run/user/1000/containerd-stargz-grpc/containerd-stargz-grpc.sock"
```

The snapshotter can be specified as `$CONTAINERD_SNAPSHOTTER`.
```console
$ export CONTAINERD_SNAPSHOTTER=stargz
$ nerdctl run -it --rm ghcr.io/stargz-containers/alpine:3.10.2-esgz
```

See https://github.com/containerd/stargz-snapshotter/blob/master/docs/pre-converted-images.md for the image list.

## bypass4netns
| :zap: Requirement | nerdctl >= 0.17 |
|-------------------|-----------------|


[bypass4netns(https://github.com/rootless-containers/bypass4netns)](https://github.com/rootless-containers/bypass4netns) is an accelerator for rootless networking.

This improves **outgoing or incoming (with --publish option) networking performance.**

The performance benchmark with iperf3 on Ubuntu 21.10 on Hyper-V VM is shown below.
| iperf3 benchmark  | without bypass4netns | with bypass4netns |
| ----------------- | -------------------- | ----------------- |
| container -> host | 0.398 Gbps           | **42.2 Gbps**         |
| host -> container | 20.6 Gbps             | **47.4 Gbps**         |

This benchmark can be reproduced with [https://github.com/rootless-containers/bypass4netns/blob/f009d96139e9e38ce69a2ea8a9a746349bad273c/Vagrantfile](https://github.com/rootless-containers/bypass4netns/blob/f009d96139e9e38ce69a2ea8a9a746349bad273c/Vagrantfile)

Acceleration with bypass4netns is available with `--label nerdctl/bypass4netns=true`. You also need to have `bypass4netnsd` (bypass4netns daemon) to be running.
Example
```console
$ containerd-rootless-setuptool.sh install-bypass4netnsd
$ nerdctl run -it --rm -p 8080:80 --label nerdctl/bypass4netns=true alpine
```

More detail is available at [https://github.com/rootless-containers/bypass4netns/blob/master/README.md](https://github.com/rootless-containers/bypass4netns/blob/master/README.md)

### :warning: Caveats :warning:
Subnets(`127.0.0.0/8, 10.0.0.0/8`) not handled by bypass4netns is hard-coded.
Container networks which are not contained in the subnets can be broken or can cause problems.

### TODO
- Remove hard-coded subnets in pkg/bypass4netnsutil/bypass.go

## Troubleshooting

### Hint to Fedora users
- If SELinux is enabled on your host and your kernel is older than 5.13, you need to use [`fuse-overlayfs` instead of `overlayfs`](#fuse-overlayfs).
